# Python Pandas Challenge
This repository will be used for the Module 4 Pandas Python challenge.

## Description

I completed the analysis about the academic performance of students in different schools within the same district, based on data from two CSV files that were automatically generated by mockaroo.com. The analysis uses the pandas and pathlib library to read, merge, and manipulate the data, and then calculates various statistics and creates data frames and variables to display the results. The analysis also categorizes the schools by different criteria, such as per student budget, total students, and school type, and compares the average scores and passing rates for the math and reading parts of a standardized test.

## Visuals
The attached screenshots are of the results of the project. They display the financial analysis from the PyBank challenge and the election results from the PyPoll challenge.

## Installation

Feel free to download the CSV and the Python Jupyter Notebook files I provided to look over the Python script files.

Input the below modules for script files to run properly

```python
# Dependencies and Setup
import pandas as pd
from pathlib import Path
```

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first
to discuss what you would like to change/recommend.

## Authors and Acknowledgement

I solely worked on this project, however, I did utilize the website Stack Overflow and the Xpert Learning Assistant AI tool (provided by boot camp class) to complete some tasks that either I needed a refresher or we did not learn in our prior boot camp classes.

I used the below website to help me learn the .concat() function to merge the pandas series data type instead of the .merge() function which would have taken multiple lines.

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/18062135/combining-two-series-into-a-dataframe-in-pandas

Then, I also used an AI tool called Xpert Learning Assistant that runs on Chat GPT to help me write these lines of code to resolve an error with parsing the '$' and string to integer data type in '<'.

```python
# Remove the dollar sign and comma from "Per Student Budget" column as I was getting an error with '$' in using pd.cut
school_spending_df["Per Student Budget"] = school_spending_df["Per Student Budget"].str.replace('$', '')

# Convert "Per Student Budget" column to numeric values as I was getting an error with '<' in using pd.cut
school_spending_df["Per Student Budget"] = pd.to_numeric(school_spending_df["Per Student Budget"])
```
